To visualize funnel drop off in Tableau,
we start with a skills covered in the last section: discerning what data is available,
putting steps in order,
and counting the number of users who make it through each step.
Here is the starting place for visualizing the funnel.
Note that I've already ordered the events and calculated visitor counts for each step.
The simplest visualization to create is the bar chart.
A bar chart is a clean and simple way to show drop off between steps in a funnel.
While there are more literal funnel-shaped visualizations possible,
a bar chart shows the decrease in users between
each step in a way that makes clear the drop off occurring.
To select a bar chart,
we can select that visual type from the Show Me section.
If pages and events are in rows,
you'll see a long bar chart like this.
I find vertical charts are more easy to read,
so I like to keep my events as columns.
Before this visual can be put in front of others,
we need to make sure that the labels are readable and correct.
We do this by expanding the visual,
re-tiling the chart to represent the data.
Also, while the bars show the relative drop off in number of users at each step,
it's always nice to provide the exact numbers for easy reference.
To do this, I'll go the Label section and select Show mark labels.
Finally, before sharing a visual,
it is helpful to distinguish the steps with different colors.
This makes them stand out at separate moments in the user journey.
To color the bars,
I just need to drag the dimension of interest,
in this case, pages,
over the color section in marks.
Now we visualize the funnel drop off in a way that is easy to understand and share.